One of the most I think
predominant characteristics
of enterprise applications is scale and
with scale,
become size,
which begets performance problems.
And I want to take a quick
moment to just talk about
a tool that the Angular team
released to help get or
gain insights into how
your app is performing and
to look for possible bottlenecks, etc.
And so you can look on,
if you google Angular DevTools
they have a pretty comprehensive
section about this.
And what this allows you
to do is to want debug your
application if something
that's going wrong.
It also allows you, I think, the other
important part is to do profiling.
And so there's a lot of things
that you can do in this, so
I think probably my to go to
kind of plugins when I'm working
with Angular is the Redux DevTools for
state management but
also I have found this particular
tool to be valuable as well.
So you can just install it from
the Chrome Web Store, which I'm in Chrome,
but they there's other options
depending on your browser.
And what you can do is
just load your app up.
Navigate over to
the DevTools tab over here.
And let me just create some space in here.
So one of the things that I
like quite a bit is that it's
showing you kind of
the the template hierarchy and
you're able to kind of drill in and
see properties about
what you are selecting.
So for instance, it's showing you
that on this particular form,
that if I wanted to see what's
actually on it, like the value,
which there's nothing right now,
but if I were to select it,
right in the dev tools,
you can inspect the value of this option.
So one of the things that I
used to do quite a bit was just
dump the entire kind of an object
onto the page and inspect it.
So I would do something
like this quite a bit,
let's just open up the,
Challenge detail component,
or rather I wanted the template,
but there we go.
And let's say something wasn't happening
with a form that I wanted it to.
So a very, very common technique,
which I still occasionally use,
but I think the dev tools kind
of eliminates the need for
this is I come in, proper pre tag in, and
then I would essentially dump out,
The particular thing that I wanted
to inspect, so very, very common for
me to do something like this,
like the form is not doing what I want,
and now I need to,
like figure out what's happening.
So you can see here it's
kind of at the bottom.
Then select it, and you can see it,
which totally fine it's easy but
at the same time now
with the dev tools you
don't really need to do
that anymore because
you have the option to kind of go in and
select.
In this case, I'm looking for the form.
And if you go down you can
see that it has the form and
you can click on the values,
and you can see them here.
So this is a really nice
way to kind of inspect and
dig into your Angular application.
So I really appreciate
the Angular team doing that.
Another quite interesting piece is that
you can look at the environment hierarchy.
And so it's just kind of showing you
how this particular thing is wired up.
But the element hierarchy so
you can actually,
I was hoping that would show the,
but you can kind of scroll down and
see how this is all wired together,
which is pretty neat.
And the last part that I want
to just show in terms of kind
of performance management and
gaining insight is you can come in and
just start to make some changes and
different things like this,
so we're interacting with it, cancel, etc.
Nothing too fancy.
And then when you're done you have
the ability to kind of step in and
look at when you the particular
like micro actions within that,
like how long did it take and
the details around that.
So if all of a sudden
you're doing something and
it's just blowing up that you can
say well, what was taking so long?
Well, it apparently that when we are
interacting with this that the changes for
this took about one tenth of a second
I believe, or almost 0.9 miliseconds.
So very, very fast, but relative to
everything else, that was quite a bit.
But I would say Angular as
a whole is pretty performant.
But occasionally,
there just are things that happen.
Maybe you're not cleaning
up an event listener, or
something is happening
maybe you're not aware of.
And this is a great tool for
debugging, but
also running the application,
profiling it, and
then using that as a starting
point to take that data and
go and optimize your web application.